An understanding of
the blockchain ecosystem
begins with understanding
how it is built.
This begins with a discussion
of the blockchain stack.
The blockchain stack
has projects with
multiple layers of what
are called protocols.
The stack might begin with
what's called a base layer,
followed by an
application protocol,
and then another
application layer
at the top of the stack.
By replicating and storing
user data across
a decentralized network
rather than individual
applications controlling
access to silos of information,
blockchain does
two very important things.
First, it reduces barriers to
entry for those who are
utilizing its benefits.
Secondly, it creates
a potentially much more
competitive ecosystem
of products and services.
Maybe you have heard
about Bitcoin mining.
Bitcoin's process requires
the continuous validation of
new transactions and recording
of them on the blockchain.
This is the process that is
called mining the blocks.
Each block contains a timestamp,
what's known as a nonce,
a reference to the previous
block and a list of
all the transactions
that have taken
place since the previous block.
Currently, a new Bitcoin block is
mined approximately
every 10 minutes,
but it's important
to note that due to
the rapid transformation
of this technology,
that timing will
definitely change.
To produce blocks, blockchain
miners compete to solve
difficult mathematical
problems based on
what's called a cryptographic
hash algorithm.
This process is
called Proof of Work.
Proof of work provides that
the blockchain miner spends time
and resources to solve a problem.
Once that block is solved,
the transactions in it
are considered confirmed.
This is blockchain mining,
and there are
several companies in
the blockchain space that
perform this function.
Concerns have been
expressed about the speed
of this mining process
in the blockchain.
We're always looking for
reduced time to
process transactions.
To address these concerns
over the speed of mining,
a process known as Proof of
Stake has been developed.
Proof of stake serves as
an alternative to
this proof of work process.
Proof of stake is a process
whereby the amount
held in a particular
cryptocurrency
determines the amount
that can be mined
by that holder of
the cryptocurrency.
For example, if an individual
holds three percent
of a cryptocurrency,
that individual can mine
three percent of the blocks
in a proof of stake process.
Proof of stake is premised on
the assumption that
individuals with
an economic stake in
the cryptocurrency would not
want to devalue their holdings,
so they will always act in
the best interests of
the blockchain network.
In understanding
the blockchain ecosystem
and its development,
it's very important to understand
a concept known as
interoperability.
Interoperability refers to
standards that ensure that
different blockchain
implementations can
work with each other,
and there are many
blockchain companies
working in this space.
Currently, the only way to
move value across block chains
is to move tokens into
a centralized token exchange,
trade on the exchange's
in-house records,
and then withdraw the asset
onto a different blockchain.
Interoperability standards
could potentially speed up
this process and derive
the creation of value.
Fundamentally,
there are two types of
blockchain interoperability.
The first is known as
cross chain messaging,
this process relays
messages about
the state of one blockchain
to another blockchain.
The second is known as
cross chain atomic swaps,
this process facilitates
the exchange of tokens between
users and across blockchains
without using a third party.
Companies are working to
build bridges between
blockchains and offer
interoperability between them.
There are many other efforts
underway in the development of
blockchain that are working
together to increase
its effectiveness.
For example, scalability efforts
led by blockchain
companies are underway to
increase the number of
transactions that can be
processed in a period of time.
Forks or changes in
the procedures and
processes of a blockchain,
and improvements
to the efficiency
of how blockchains work.
These efforts combined
together comprise
an important part of
the development of
the blockchain ecosystem.
In examining
the blockchain ecosystem
and its development,
there are two very
important things
that we should also talk about.
Smart contracts and oracles.
Maybe you've heard
of a smart contract,
a smart contract is actually
a set of digital
promises including
protocols within
which the parties
perform on the promises
of the contract.
In other words,
a smart contract is
a computer algorithm which
performs the contract.
Smart contracts can
be written to be
executed both on and
off of a blockchain.
An oracle is an agent
that finds and verifies
real-world occurrences
and submits
the information to a blockchain
to be used by the
smart contracts.
Essentially, an oracle
is a data feed
provided by a third party
data service.
There are many types of oracles;
software oracles, hardware,
inbound data, outbound,
and consensus-based where
multiple parties would have to
agree in order to verify
a real-world occurrence.
Together, smart contracts
and oracles comprise
an exciting and dynamic part
of the blockchain ecosystem,
because working together
they can help propel
other parts of the development of
the blockchain ecosystem and
businesses that operate using it.
Several other types
of companies are very
important to the development
of the blockchain ecosystem.
Among them are
blockchain security,
legal and audit, and privacy.
Blockchain security.
It's important to
understand the elements
that make blockchain tamperproof.
We discussed them earlier.
First, the cryptographic
fingerprint
that's unique to each block
known as the hash,
which proves that
the blockchain minor did
the computational work to
add the block to the chain.
A second element also makes
the blockchain tamperproof.
A consensus protocol,
which is the process by
which the parts of the network
agree on the shared history.
Because of this process,
in order to change an entry in
the distributed ledger
retroactively,
a new hash would have to
be created not only for
the block that it's currently in
but for every subsequent block.
There are companies in
the blockchain ecosystem that
help ensure this process.
Blockchain security companies.
Blockchain security
companies conduct
security audits of
decentralized applications.
For example, they might review
a systems architecture
and code and
then provide a report on
action items for the issues
that are discovered.
Blockchain legal
and audit companies
also comprise an important part
of its development.
They audit the compliance of
a company's use of
the blockchain.
Privacy is also
an important consideration
in the development
of the blockchain.
Brockchain privacy companies
are distributed
data privacy platforms.
How do they work?
If an individual stores data on
the blockchain encrypted
with their own public key,
they can actually
delegate access to
another individual using
a privacy company.
That data is then rekeyed to
the second individual's
key in storage,
who can download
the data and decrypt it.
The development of the blockchain
also includes several other types
of companies that
work in this space
of sovereignty and
communications.
At a high level,
these companies are
doing things such as,
helping individuals or parts of
the blockchain communicate
with each other,
helping users control
their own data,
and assisting in the security
and cybersecurity
of the blockchain.